PROPOSITION IN COUNCIL:

	The following is proposed to the Council of Nomes. In Council, the proposed change will be an amendment to the Constitution of Nerdiness.

	Article 3

Article 3 Section 1
	
	Through a bill proposed to the Council of Nomes an amendment can be made to the Constitution of Nerdiness. Said amendment will be voted on by the Council of Nomes, the bill will be passed if there is a majority of the Nomes. However if it only passes by 50% then the bill will be passed on to the Nymphs. Then the Nymphs will vote for or against the bill. Finally the president can veto the vote for the bill.

Article 3 Section 2
		
	Any proposed bill to be presented to the Council of Nomes must be written in a specific format. Then the bill will be presented to a Nome to be proposed to the Council. When the bill is presented the original author should be present. However if they are unable to attend they will be asked to make a statement to send to the council, or a representative that they can send in to represent themselves to the Council.

Article 3 Section 2 Subsection 1
	
When a bill is written it should begin with the statement, “PROPOSITION IN COUNCIL:” There should then be a short statement about how the bill will change the Constitution. This statement should determine whether the proposed change is an amendment, deletion, or edit.

At the end of the bill document there should be a section that will detail who authored the bill and the date it was proposed, reviewed, and (possibly) enacted. This section should also include the outcome of the various votes that enacted the bill.


Article 3 Section 2 Subsection 2
	
When a bill is written it should contain a short description of the bill after the phrase “The following is proposed to the Council of Nomes.” Then the text of the bill should be formatted as follows: new verbiage will be denoted by underlined text, text meant to remain as is is normally formatted, and text to be deleted is struck through.

All bills should be written with the same style as the Constitution. All text belonging to the central text of the bill should be in Times New Roman, all other text in the bill (notes, the headers, extra information) should be in an eleven point monospace font.

Proposed By:	Carter N. Plasek (Scribe/Nome)
Proposal Date:	Sep 11, 2017
Review Date:	9/17/2017
Outcome:		Passed (100%)
Enactment Date: Sep 18, 2017 @ 5:00 AM

