PROPOSITION IN COUNCIL:

	The following is proposed to the Council of Nomes. In Council, the proposed change will be an amendment to the Constitution of Nerdiness.

Preamble
The following proposed changes include:
Changes designed to increase the organization of the constitution such as article organization which dedicates articles to specific subjects, such as meetings, presidential powers and responsibilities, etc.

Changes designed to make meeting occurrences more reliable and robust, such as a specific monthly date as a goal with some protocols for flexibility in this schedule.

Responsibilities delegated to the Presidential Office designed to ensure that the frequency of meetings is proper.

Specification of election protocol to better dictate a clear procedure for elections that is understood and pre-planned.

Detailed the appointment of scribe in an official capacity.
Article 1; Meetings
Article 1 Section 1; When
	A meeting of A.C.R.O.N.Y.M. is held at least once a month tentatively scheduled for the second Saturday of every month, or when a member of the council of Nomes calls one. A lack of a quorum of at least half of the Nymphs and two of the Nomes prevents official action from being taken at a meeting. Each meeting is labeled by the meeting number and the session number. Sessions start on the second Saturday of July, starting with Session 0 starting on July 16th 2016. A new session marks an election for president. The president cannot veto an impeachment.
Article 1 Section 2; What

	The election for president begins with first nominations for people to the council of Nomes, there is then an election for the three members of the council. Then out of those three we elect a president.

	The president has the power to call a meeting (as the rest of the council of Nomes) and to veto anything voted for. The president can resign at anytime and the next meeting will be an election. A president can be impeached by a vote of the other two council members and the nymphs. The next meeting will therefore be an election and mark a new session.

Elections for the next President of ACRONYM will occur on the first meeting of a session or the first meeting held with a quorum of at least half of the voting body present. The election will start with a vote of all members of ACRONYM via rank choice voting. The top three candidates are selected as the members of the Council of Nomes. If there is a tie which results in there not being a clear top three, those who would be in the Council and those involved in the tie will be put on a runoff ballot to determine the top three. 

Once the Council of Nomes has been selected there is a second rank choice vote among the members of the Council of Nomes, the top candidate in this vote will be the President of ACRONYM for the next Session.

Article 1 Section 2 Subsection 1; Vote Counting
Counting of votes cast in a rank choice system will be done by finding the maximum rank labeled on a ballot, adding one to this value results in the number of tallies allocated to the candidate ranked first by each voter. If a voter elected to only vote for one candidate it is assumed that this vote is a first rank vote. The second rank will be given the tally count of first rank minus one, and so on to find the score for every subsequent rank.
Article 1 Section 2 Subsection 2; Supervision
The counting of the votes for any element of the election of the President of ACRONYM requires there be one member of the Nymphery and one Nome to each separately count the ballots. If there is a disagreement regarding the final count, two other members will be delegated to perform a recount.
Article 1 Section 3; Who
To add a new member to A.C.R.O.N.Y.M there must be a ⅔ majority of the Nymphs and then a unanimous vote of the Nomes. If this vote is passed, then the member is added to the nymphery.

Article 1 Section 3 Subsection 1
An application to speak in front of the ACRONYM group must not be negated by race, gender, ethnicity, or age. If we accept a female to the group we will change the acronym of A.C.R.O.N.Y.M to A Corrupt Regimen Of Nerdy Young Mammals.
Article 1 Section 3; 
	When a project to be developed is suggested to the council the member it is suggested to decides if a meeting shall be called or if it should be reserved for the next meeting. At said meeting there is an election of the Nomes and Nymphs if there is a majority then the Nomes vote on it if it is voted for and not vetoed it is regarded as a new project and is put under control of the suggestor.

	Once a project is fully developed it goes through the same process to be put into action or stored as a theory.

Article 2; Duties of the Office of President
Article 2 Section 1; Powers
Article 2 Section 1 Subsection 1; Vetoes
The President of ACRONYM is granted the power to override bills passed by the council of Nomes. However if this power is executed the vote then goes to the nymphery, with an affirmative yea, neh vote of 66% or more, the bill will still be enacted. 
Article 2 Section 1 Subsection 2; Summoning
The President of ACRONYM is granted the power to call a meeting of ACRONYM at any time, however they are also granted the power to summon the Council of Nomes. If a Nome or Nymph wishes there to be a congregation of the Council of Nomes, the request must go through the President, or be voted for with an affirmative yea, neh vote of 50% or more.
Article 2 Section 1 Subsection 3; Committee Formation
The President of ACRONYM is granted the power to spin up a committee for planning an ACRONYM project, assessing a potential action, and executing said action. Any committee which is spun up by the President of ACRONYM is to report their findings or conclusion to the Council of Nomes and subsequently, no less than one day later to the nymphery. The period of time between when any committee is spun up and when they are required to report their findings to the President of ACRONYM is to be decided upon by the president upon committee formation. This period of time is at a minimum two weeks, or 14 days in time.
Article 2 Section 1 Subsection 4; Appointments
The Office of the President can make appointments to the offices detailed in Article 2 Section 3. The President is allowed to appoint any member of ACRONYM to any office wished unless they have already been appointed in a different capacity, unless the appointment specifically allows appointments that have already been appointed in different capacity..
Article 2 Section 2; Responsibilities
Article 2 Section 2 Subsection 1; Planning Meetings
The Office of the President is required to announce upcoming meetings one week before the constitution’s goal date which is the second Saturday of every month. This announcement must be in a place that is proper for announcements that is visible to all ACRONYM’s members, and the announcement must include the following:
The calendar date of the meeting
A headcount to determine if a quorum can attend the meeting on the constitution’s goal date
A basic description of the goal of the meeting. 
If the headcount determines that less than a quorum of ACRONYM’s members are able to attend the meeting, then the President is required to schedule a meeting such that a quorum is able to attend the meeting.
	
Article 2 Section 2 Subsection 2; Presiding over Meetings
The Office of President is required to preside over every monthly meeting, as well as any meeting that they summon such that the meeting accomplishes all of the following:
Any and all constitutional amendments that have been passed by the Council of Nomes are announced and described to the attending members
Any and all constitutional amendments that have been rejected or vetoed by the Council of Nomes are announced and described to the attending members
Announcing and subsequently ensuring the fulfilment of any goals of the meeting that were described in the announcement of the meeting on the first Saturday of every month, such as activities or events.
Article 2 Section 3; Appointments
		Article 2 Section 2 Subsection 1; Appointment of the Scribe
The President of ACRONYM is required to appoint a member of ACRONYM to be the scribe for the duration of their term or as long as said appointee is held in good standing by the majority of the Council of Nomes within one week of being elected to the Office of President. The appointment of a Scribe must be accepted by a unanimous vote of the Council of Nomes.

The Scribe is expected to keep minutes of all ACRONYM meetings and is the designated records keeper and is allowed to hold join roles as long as any other role which they hold does not conflict with their duties as Scribe.

The Scribe is to act as an advisor to the President and the Council on matters of the Constitution and otherwise.
Article 2 Section 1
	To add a new member to A.C.R.O.N.Y.M there must be a ⅔ majority of the Nymphs and then a unanimous vote of the Nomes.  If this vote is passed, then the member is added to the nymphery.


Article 2 Section 2
	An application to speak in front of the acronym group must not be negated by race, gender, ethnicity, or age. If we accept a female to the group we will change the acronym of A.C.R.O.N.Y.M to A Corrupt Regimen Of Nerdy Young Mammals.

Article 3; Amendment Process
Article 3 Section 1; Bill Proposition
	Through a bill proposed to the Council of Nomes an amendment can be made to the Constitution of Nerdiness. Said amendment will be voted on by the Council of Nomes, the bill will be passed if there is a majority of the Nomes. However if it is not voted in by at least 85% then the bill will be passed on to the Nymphs. Then the Nymphs will vote for or against the bill. Finally the president can veto the vote for the bill.


Article 3 Section 2; Authoring
	Any proposed bill to be presented to the Council of Nomes must be written in a specific format. Then the bill will be presented to a Nome to be proposed to the Council. When the bill is presented the original author should be present. However if they are unable to attend they will be asked to make a statement to send to the council, or a representative that they can send in to represent themselves to the Council.

Article 3 Section 2 Subsection 1; Formatting
When a bill is written it should begin with the statement, “PROPOSITION IN COUNCIL:” There should then be a short statement about how the bill will change the Constitution. This statement should determine whether the proposed change is an amendment, deletion, or edit.

At the end of the bill document there should be a section that will detail who authored the bill and the date it was proposed, reviewed, and (possibly) enacted. This section should also include the outcome of the various votes that enacted the bill.


Article 3 Section 2 Subsection 2; Text
When a bill is written it should contain a short description of the bill after the phrase “The following is proposed to the Council of Nomes.” Then the text of the bill should be formatted as follows: new verbiage will be denoted by underlined text, text meant to remain as is is normally formatted, and text to be deleted is struck through.

All bills should be written with the same style as the Constitution. All text belonging to the central text of the bill should be in Times New Roman, all other text in the bill (notes, the headers, extra information) should be in an eleven point monospace font.
Article 4

Article 4 Section 1
When any decision passes the council of Nomes, any Nome, or any Nymph may request that the Nymphs vote to veto said decision. If a request is made, then the Nymphs must vote. If at least two thirds of the Nymphs agree that the decision should be vetoed, then it is effectively invalid. If the President, or the Council of Nomes  attempts to veto this veto, then the decision must be sent back to its original creator for review, and editing, before starting the process over with a vote of the Council. The Council themselves, or a Nymph, or a group of Nymphs, may substitute for the original creator in this revision process. The original creator, or their substitute, may also drop the decision entirely.
Article 4 Section 1 Subsection 1
	The Nomes may request the advice, or knowledge, of any Nymph that they wish, or any Nome among themselves, before making a decision. However, said person retains any and all rights to silence. The Nymphs may also request the same, from any Nome, or any Nymph. before voting. Said person still maintains their rights to silence.

Article 4 Section 2
The Nymphs may veto any veto within the council, with a two thirds majority vote. Should the Council, or the president try to veto this, then the original veto must be reconsidered in the council, and the process repeated.
Article 4 Section 3
With a four out of five majority, the Nymphs may vote to make any decision themselves, by majority vote, in place of the Nomes, for any reason whatsoever, at their own discretion. This is unable to be vetoed by both the President, and by the Council, if the majority is at least nine out of ten. The Nymphs can also pass a decision off to Nomes, with a two thirds majority. The Nomes can also pass a decision off to the Nymphs. Once any of these differences take place, the original responsible party cannot change their minds without permission from the other party. Similarly, the receiving party can not give back the decision without permission from the other part.


Proposed By:	Carter N. Plasek (Scribe) Ethan D. Hunt (President)
Proposal Date:	Jan 23, 2021
Bill Name:		Declaration Clarification Act
Review Date:	Jan 23, 2021
Outcome:		Passed (100%)
Enactment Date: Jan 24, 2021

