PROPOSITION IN COUNCIL:

	The following is proposed to the Council of Nomes. In Council, the proposed change will be an amendment to the Constitution of Nerdiness.

	Article 5

Article 5 Section 1
	
	There will be two representatives of the council of Nomes to handle any form of financial assets that are being held in the name of ACRONYM. These two representatives must be separate. The first will be the treasurer. The second the funds manager. 

	The treasurer will be responsible for keeping the ledger required by Article 5 Section 2 Subsection 2 up to date. They will not be responsible for the security of the ACRONYM financial assets. This responsibility will rest with the funds manager.

Article 5 Section 2
		
	At any time any member of ACRONYM may request a thorough analysis of the current worth of the ACRONYM funds, or any transactions, allocations, or other modifications to the funds. This request must be responded to within 48 hours by any member of the council of Nomes.
Article 5 Section 2 Subsection 1
There will be a maximum duration placed on these financial information requests that is set at 3 months. If the ledger instituted by Article 5 Section 2 Subsection 2 is newer than 3 months the older information will be retrieved from the archived version of the ledger, In this case the alloted time for the request to be honored will be increased to 72 hours.
Article 5 Section 2 Subsection 2
There should be a ledger containing all of the information required by the financial information request kept. As noted above this ledger will contain every transaction, allocation, or other modification to the funds. This ledger will be archived every 6 months.
Article 5 Section 2 Subsection 3
If the Nome that did not respond to the request within the allotted 48 hours (or 72 hours as mentioned in Article 5 Section 2 Subsection 1) and said Nome is either the treasurer or funds manager the President will be requested to encourage an enactment of Article 4 Section 2 by the nymphs to determine if the Nome in question should be replaced in their financial responsibilities.



Proposed By:	Carter N. Plasek (Scribe/Nome)
Proposal Date:	3/2/2018
Review Date:	
Outcome:		
Enactment Date: 