PROPOSITION IN COUNCIL:
The following is proposed to the Council of Nomes. In Council, the proposed change will be an amendment to the Constitution of Nerdiness.

Preamble
In spinning up committee nulla I have noticed some lacking specificity in the constitution regarding the requirements to spin up a committee.

I have formatted the subsection into two separate paragraphs. One details the president’s responsibilities in a committee formation, and the other paragraph details the committee’s responsibilities.

The requirement of a committee to be spun up through the format of a bill is tied to a defense against a potentially malicious president. With this method the Council of Nomes may block any committee with unreasonable time requirements, or unreasonable assignments.

Constitution Changes
Article 2 Section 1 Subsection 3; Committee Formation
The President of ACRONYM is granted the power to spin up a committee for planning an ACRONYM project, assessing a potential action, and executing said action. To spin up a committee the president must write a bill announcing the committee. In this bill the president must detail which members constitute a committee upon formation, what format a report is expected in, what the committee’s assignment in detail, and an expected completion date for the committee’s assignment. The president may include himself in the committee’s membership upon formation. This bill must be sent to the Council of Nomes for a vote of approval requiring a majority of the Council of Nomes approve the bill before it may be announced to the Nymphery.

Any committee which is spun up by the President of ACRONYM is to report their findings or conclusion to the Council of Nomes and subsequently, no less than one day later to the Nymphery. Any committee member is free to invite other nymphs to become a member of the committee. Once a committee’s assignment is completed they may submit a report to the Council of Nomes in any way deemed appropriate, but are compelled to give consideration to the president’s expected report format.


Proposed By:		Ethan D. Hunt (President)
Proposal Date:		June 12, 2021
Bill Name:		The June Committee Amendment
Review Date:		6/12/2021 5:10 PM EST
Outcome:		Approved 100%
Enactment Date:	6/12/2021
