PROPOSITION IN COUNCIL:

	The following is proposed to the Council of Nomes. In Council, the proposed change will be an amendment to the Constitution of Nerdiness.

Article 1 Section 2; What
Elections for the next President of ACRONYM will occur on the first meeting of a session or the first meeting held with a quorum of at least half of the voting body present. The election will start with a vote of all members of ACRONYM via rank choice voting. The top three candidates are selected as the members of the Council of Nomes. If there is a tie which results in there not being a clear top three, those who would be in the Council and those involved in the tie will be put on a runoff ballot to determine the top three. 

Once the Council of Nomes has been selected there is a second rank choice vote among the members of the Council of Nomes, the top candidate in this vote will be the President of ACRONYM for the next Session.

Article 1 Section 2 Subsection 1; Vote Counting
Counting of votes cast in a rank choice system will be done by finding the maximum rank labeled on a ballot, adding one to this value results in the number of tallies allocated to the candidate ranked first by each voter. If a voter elected to only vote for one candidate it is assumed that this vote is a first rank vote. The second rank will be given the tally count of first rank minus one, and so on to find the score for every subsequent rank.
Article 1 Section 2 Subsection 2; Supervision
The counting of the votes for any element of the election of the President of ACRONYM or the council of nomes requires there be one member of the Nymphery and one Nome to each separately count the ballots. If there is a disagreement regarding the final count, two other members will be delegated to perform a recount.
Article 1 Section 2 Subsection 3; Tiebreakers
If during the course of the election for the council of Nomes, there is a tie which results in there not being a clear top three, those who would be in the Council and those involved in the tie will be put on a runoff ballot to determine the top three. This second vote shall follow the same rules and processes as the first.
If during the course of the presidential election, there is a tie that results in there not being a clear top candidate, then a second vote shall be conducted among the top two candidates. In the event that there is a three way tie during the presidential election, the candidate who totalled the least number of votes during the Council election shall be disqualified.
Article 1 Section 2 Subsection 4; Ambiguity, Edge Cases and Brevity of Rules
If during any council or presidential voting process, there is disagreement as how the rules set forth in this document should be interpreted, or as to who the winning candidate is, the current sitting Council of Nomes shall come to a majority agreement on what course of action should be taken to decide the vote. This course of action should be formalized, and presented to the Nymphery were a formal vote shall be conducted to accept or deny.

This document could not possibly account for or predict all future issues that may arise. As such it cannot reasonably govern those issues. Instead it is suggested that the voting body of ACRONYM work together with empathy and understanding, that disagreements be settled in a civil manner, and above all else that the core values of Nerdiness and diversity of experience be upheld in whatever decision is made.

Proposed By:	Committee Nulla
Proposal Date:	6/30/2021
Review Date:	6/30/2021
Outcome:		Passed
Enactment Date: 6/30/2021
